[Music]
hi
i'm alan ross i am the editor-in-chief
of transformer technology magazine
and the tt community curator
and as the curator of that community we
present uh prevent profiles
of different people and different uh
opportunities
in the transformer world there's a
special one today our guests
are uh herman vogel is vp of development
of tjh2b
analytical services who's the host of
techcon
21 we'll talk about that in a minute
welcome herman
thank you and we've got john mcdonald
john
is um he john's unique i never really
know what john does but he does it for
ge and he does it for the world
he does it for ieee so john you are with
general electric thank you for joining
us
thanks and then i've got chris root the
ceo of vermont electric
and you were just named i don't know i
think it's king of sea gray right
something important at sea gray no thank
you
i ellen i am going to be starting um
this january the uh president of the u.s
national committee of sea grace so c
gray has each
country has a national committee so i'll
be the president of the national
committee for sea grant
excellent and i know both both john and
chris are
very very actively involved in ieee and
have been over the years we'll talk
about that a little bit separately
but we're here to talk about techcon 21
uh back in i think it was 19
was it 1986 hermann or 76. it was a long
time ago
that gun started and uh the first one
was actually 1996 in new orleans
96. okay i gave you more credit for for
all of those things
somebody had to be thinking about it but
1996 in new orleans
this year techcon 21 unfortunately it's
not in new orleans it's not in orlando
it is going virtual which is a first for
them
and as a result of that what we wanted
to do is just share
some of the things that are happening
with techcon 21
to those that are attending to have a
little bit of an update
and those who've been thinking about it
to uh get up and sign up
and for those who've just heard about it
for the first time look into techcon21
but we're going to start off with you
herman and i'd like you to kind of give
some highlights about
your expectations for tech techcon 21
now that it's going
virtual yeah as we all know the covet
virus has no boundaries
um the epidemic has compounded all of
the existing challenges
and has put tdh to be services and other
companies position
to force us to utilize the modern
technology versus
via the virtual virtual challenge
uh this is our first one and we hope to
go back to
a live or hybrid one back in 2022
possibly in phoenix with srp
it brings a challenge where we don't
have both
where we start to incorporate virtual
learning suites
it allows them actually to do more
than just a booth it allows them to give
tours
trainings of how windings are made
vapor-phase systems all kinds of things
the papers that we present we try to
always bring something new to the
industry
something new that has been developed
some new technology
as we know john mcdonnell has been a
great supporter of ours over many of the
years
has presented his world
with all the books he has written for
for the grid
good solutions this year's uh
will be a little bit different
we have a panel session that will be
moderated by chris root
on explaining how all of the epidemic
actually is working
through the utility sectors can we keep
can we keep the lights on
how can we work on these things
from srp comed and duke energy
john mcdonald will be monitoring the
panel on the second day on futuristic
learning tools which is driving
our conference in that direction right
now
the paragon that we've been going
through has been
sped up as opposed to
gradually coming to this place so we
were forced to do
to do this conference virtually
one of the things i like about the
ability to do something virtual as you
said it's sped up uh
all of us on here are of the age that we
were born analog
and some of us are going to die analog
the next generation and i know that's
one of the big things that techcom that
you're looking
to really approach is get the next
generation and i think the next
generation are those people
in their 20s especially the 30s and 40s
and 50 something
who uh we're all going to pass on to one
things i love both about
john and chris is their involvement with
ieee especially john
john with pat ryan the recently deceased
executive director and others were
instrumental in the student program at
ieee so john
i'm i'm going to go to you first because
i know your passion for
innovation and your passion for the next
generation
herman's just using that he's kind of
bringing you together and then saying
hey bring a panel together so um herman
i want a
invite i get to go and listen to these
guys but john
talk to me about what people can expect
from your panel
well one of the things with uh with the
panel
we with futuristic learning tools we
hand-picked
the presenters alan so we wanted to
cover
three different perspectives and we also
wanted to cover domestic and
international
you know both and i also wanted to cover
a startup
versus uh somebody more established in
the industry
versus an international utility and and
their consultant
um so uh what's exciting to me is we
there's a startup that i've actually
been advising since they first formed
in boston called tag up and very
innovative ways to
to do transformer monitoring diagnostics
and asset performance management
and in fact at our u.s national
committee
next generation network paper
competition which we have every year
last year the winner of that paper
competition
was a young professional from this
startup company
and what was exciting was his name's ben
mccormick and the founder of the company
who i've been advising since
since the start uh listen ben
is a data scientist who
the more he learns about power systems
he brings together data science
and power domain knowledge and so as a
data scientist
he won the young pa young professional
paper competition
at a power system conference and that
that's exciting because that's that's
that's the future and so uh the speaker
is the first speaker is the founder of
the company the founder of tag up
good friend of mine he used to work at
the ge together
and he's going to talk about the
innovative things they've done
on on heterogeneous data sets and
applying machine learning
to get more value out of the out of the
health data from
uh transformers okay very very exciting
the second speaker uh is a good friend
of mine
for many many years alex apostolov uh
you know
we know alex he's he's the editor of pac
world magazine
uh pac means protection automation
control
of the electric grid and he wrote a
paper for seagray
it was accepted for paris paris uh
actually this year uh which which will
be
uh carried over to next year but it's a
fascinating paper on the application of
artificial intelligence
to asset performance management okay so
the first one with john is machine
learning and hero genius data sets
the second one is artificial
intelligence
applications to asset performance
management
and then the third one uh a phd
tina a woman from taiwan who has a
consulting company called intergrid has
been working closely with tai power
and we have health information from thai
power
from their assets and she's been
analyzing that information so it's
it's um it's kind of an innovative
approach
from an international utility that'll
give us a a little bit different
perspective than
we will get from north america i think
it's
fascinating i had i mentor a young
gentleman who
john trout who is with first energy and
he is
um managing a group of people
and his career has been since he's been
back at first energy has been focused on
substation uh rebuilding and new
substations and they spend about 1.2
billion dollars every year
and john has managed that process
however he has been asked to look into
the impact of ai and machine learning
so in our mentoring call on friday i
mentioned that i had
attended a conference where some uh uh
data scientists from
southern cal edison had used machine
learning to now
change the way that they change that
they replace transformers in the
distribution network
saved the millions of dollars everybody
on the panel four different people were
all
data scientists this was two years ago
yeah if
you know guy if you look at data
scientists it's the number one
new degree program of people coming out
of university
so we're no longer hiring double e's
we're hiring
data scientists so chris um vermont
electric
sea gray you are a busy man as well
what is your role what have you got
coming up for techcon 21.
so i'm going to be giving a paper about
um the changes in the telecommunications
space
particularly with substations right so
as
you know a key component to big data and
bringing back
all this data traditionally we brought
it back through scada systems right well
we've overwhelmed our status systems
with points
and some of this stuff doesn't need to
be used to operate
the power system on a minute-to-minute
basis
so most utilities have been trying to
find ways to bring back information on a
new path right
a different way to bring it back which
should be maintenance all the data that
john's talking about
for the data scientists to develop new
asset management strategies to save
money and improve reliability
so the idea of communicating to these
substations in a different way
is more and more important and as we
know from the telecom industries
deregulation
is that more and more utilities now are
putting in their own
private networks and not being tied
particularly with
cyber uh concerns to actually have
it under your own control for example my
company
um we're a transmission only company in
vermont
we actually have twice as many miles of
fiber optics
as we do transmission miles okay it's
because we bring trains we have fiber
that goes to all
not only transmission subs but
distribution subs and we're bringing all
that data back
bringing scada data back but we're also
bringing back
information off our ge monitoring
systems for our
transformers we're bringing back alarms
that are not critical alarms
information back weather station
information all of this type of
information is being brought back
separately and putting into a pi
database that we have
that we can actually share with others
we have a community agreement with
uh osi software allow other people to
use this one database so we have one
single place
where we can do data analytics for the
whole
in our case the whole state um so
bringing that information back
in a secure fashion underneath your
control
at a lower cost than using public
vendors
is uh you know one of the things that
i'm going to be talking a little bit
about
because i see all of my everyone who
doesn't have a private network
for fiber high speed fiber high capacity
to their substations is trying to build
one right now
yeah yeah you know it's interesting as
you
just these two gentlemen i know herman
you got a lot more to offer at techcon
but
um neither one of you really you
mentioned transformers thank you for
that but
the the truth is uh we're no longer
focusing so much on the assets
we are focusing on the networks that
gets the right data at the right time
into the right hands to make decisions
but we're not focusing on the decision
makers as individuals anymore
we're looking for ai and ml to solve
just tremendous amounts of data
that if we don't if we don't get as
john's first chapter tells us if we
don't get that
in place we're going to be flooded with
data that goes nowhere that doesn't do
anything
herman i i commend the folks at tj for
the quality of what you do at techcon
and for the content that you're bringing
and i'd love a commitment that after you
have the conference
uh here's another commitment right first
i'm coming and then secondly
uh some of these papers i would love us
to actually publish in the magazine
after the conference so that people can
find out what's happening
here's what i will tell you for those
that are considering coming
you cannot replace the ability to ask
questions to be in the room even
virtually
and so coming to techcon 21 is as
important as it is the papers alone
won't do what you can do when you have
live uh
virtual the world has gone virtual we're
much better at it today and i can
promise you that the people that are
putting this on for
uh tjh2b are going to do a bang-up job
to do it but there are other great
people coming
i cannot imagine any two uh
if you just added one more person from
the ieee world okay that would be wayne
bishop
and it would have been pat ryan but pat
is no longer with it but it would have
been wayne bishop
um and and he could have been the
triumvirate because i
i think all of you have one thing in
common i if i'm not mistaken
you're eagle scouts aren't you eagle
scout are you an eagle scout
i'm not i'm not and uh it seems that
everybody else that i triple
i ever talked with was an eagle scout
anyway this will be a great conference
um i cannot uh tell you how how much you
will enjoy
not only these two speakers but the rest
of the program
but uh this has been a profile uh from
transformer technology community
on the techcon 21. thank you gentlemen
for your time
and thank you for putting this on herman
i'd like to thank you allen for
uh taking the time to be with us today
i'd also like to thank john who's been a
great supporter
for many years who's actually
co-chaired some of our conferences we
have
our tech con in 2021 will be our 26.
but we've also had 20 techcons in
australia
we've had 18 techcons in europe we've
had three in southeast asia and two in
canada so it makes it over 60.
60 tech cons that we have experienced
throughout the world
i'd also really like to thank chris root
for being our new chair
virtual and our new chair going live in
and uh we'd like to invite you to that
conference if we go live
or hybrid and you will get a personal
invite to come and join us
thank you very much all right appreciate
it very much gentlemen you are the rock
stars of reliability
uh we did podcast with both john and
chris
uh and they were legacy leaders so
they're legends in the industry now
i get to stamp you as a legend because i
made that up this is alan ross
with transformer technology and we are
through thank you